JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening. I'm
Judy Woodruff.
Gwen Ifill is away.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
I know how hard this job will
be. That's why
I know Hillary will be so good
at it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: President Obama
officially
endorses Hillary Clinton shortly
after meeting
with Bernie Sanders, who signals
he will support
Clinton, too, after the last
primary is over.
Then, we sit down with the
secretary of homeland
security, Jeh Johnson, to talk
airport security
and the state of the terrorism
threat.
And how the musical classic
"Porgy and Bess"
is bringing a historical
perspective to the
once segregated city of
Charleston, South
Carolina.
MARIAN GREENE THOMPSON, South
Carolina: This
production coming at this time,
it's needed.
We need to know history. There
are parts of
it that we don't like. But we
need to know,
so that that can help us move
forward.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: They were rivals
for the Democratic
presidential nomination in 2008.
Now President
Obama has formally announced his
support for
Hillary Clinton to be his
successor.
At the same time, Bernie Sanders
suggested
he's prepared to end his
campaign and work
for Clinton once the final
primary takes place.
We will have a full report after
the news
summary.
In the day's other news: Islamic
State suicide
attacks killed at least 31
people in and around
Baghdad. Dozens more were
wounded in the attacks.
One targeted a majority Shiite
neighborhood
and another an army checkpoint
12 miles outside
the capital. Iraqi officials
said the bombings
are counterattacks to the
government's military
offensive to recapture Fallujah.
Israel sent hundreds of
additional troops
into the West Bank today after
Palestinian
gunmen killed four people in Tel
Aviv. The
Israelis also revoked entry
permits for more
than 80,000 Palestinians to
cross into Israel.
Meanwhile, security forces
raided one of the
suspect's homes. and they
cracked down on
workshops suspected of making
homemade guns
like those used in yesterday's
attack.
Back in this country, the House
of Representatives
moved to address Puerto Rico's
debt crisis.
A bipartisan bill will create an
independent
financial control board and
restructure some
of the island's $70 billion in
debt.
Supporters, including Republican
Jim Sensenbrenner,
said it's the only option.
REP. JAMES SENSENBRENNER (R),
Wisconsin: Let's
get Puerto Rico back on track.
And this is
a way to do it with some help
from the oversight
board. Puerto Ricans are going
to have to
do this themselves. They haven't
been able
to do it without a tap on the
shoulder. Too
bad there's an oversight board
but that's
the only game in town.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Minority Leader
Nancy Pelosi
and other Democrats also backed
the bill.
But some conservatives
complained that it
amounts to a federal bailout.
Others, like
Democrat Luis Gutierrez, who's
of Puerto Rican
descent, argued that it takes
too much authority
from local officials.
REP. LUIS GUTIERREZ (D),
Illinois: Let me
suggest to you that, if you give
power to
a control board unelected and
unsupervised
by anyone here, be careful. Be
careful. Remember
Flint. Remember the poisoning of
the people
and what the control board did
there. That
is exactly we should suspect
will happen.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Puerto Rico has a
$2 billion
debt payment that's due on the
1st of July.
Change is coming to the
Pentagon's century-old
promotion system. Currently,
troops who don't
advance to a higher rank within
a designated
time frame are pushed out.
Today, Defense
Secretary Ash Carter called for
exceptions
to the timeline in order to keep
high-tech
experts and other specialists.
He also wants
to let the services schedule
promotions on
merit, rather than seniority.
Some of the
proposals will need
congressional approval.
Thousands of people turned out
today in Louisville,
Kentucky, for a prayer service
for Muhammad
Ali. Muslims and members of
other faiths gathered
in an arena to begin two days of
remembrances
for the boxing legend. It's part
of a memorial
plan designed by Ali himself.
The three-time
heavyweight champion will be
laid to rest
tomorrow in an interfaith
service also in
Louisville.
And on Wall Street, the Dow
Jones industrial
average lost just under 20
points to close
at 17985. The Nasdaq fell 16
points, and the
S&P 500 slipped three.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
what's next
for Bernie Sanders after
President Obama endorses
Hillary Clinton; the secretary
of homeland
security talks long airport
lines and terrorism
threats; Making Sense of why
power corrupts;
and much more.
Today, President Obama made it
official, endorsing
Secretary Hillary Clinton to be
his choice
as the Democratic nominee. The
president also
met with Senator Bernie Sanders,
who didn't
drop out of the race, but did
pledge to work
toward party unity.
We have our reporters at both
ends of Pennsylvania
Avenue tonight, political
director Lisa Desjardins
on Capitol Hill, and John Yang
at the White
House.
So, John, the president was all
in today,
wasn't he?
JOHN YANG: Absolutely, Judy.
His aides say he cannot wait to
get back out
onto the campaign trail. And
even though Senator
Sanders wants to fight on for
one final primary,
it's clear that the delicate
dance of joining
forces for the fall campaign is
under way.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
Tens of millions of Americans
have made their
voices heard. Today, I just want
to add mine.
JOHN YANG: The president made
his formal declaration
in a video released by the
Clinton campaign.
BARACK OBAMA: Look, I know how
hard this job
can be. That's why I know
Hillary will be
so good at it. In fact, I don't
think there's
ever been someone so qualified
to hold this
office.
JOHN YANG: Within minutes, the
candidate tweeted
her response: "Honored to have
you with me.
I'm fired up and ready to go."
It came the same day the
president met with
Bernie Sanders at the White
House. The Vermont
senator emerged to say he will
press on through
next week's Washington, D.C.,
primary. While
not endorsing Clinton, he
promised to work
with her in the fall campaign.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (VT-I),
Presidential Candidate:
I look forward to meeting with
her in the
near future to see how we can
work together
to defeat Donald Trump.
JOHN YANG: Democrats have begun
the delicate
process of getting Sanders to
stand down without
offending his supporters. Senate
Democratic
Leader Harry Reid met with the
candidate this
afternoon.
SEN. HARRY REID (D-NV), Minority
Leader: I
think he will, of course, be
involved in the
process of what goes on in
coming up with
a party platform, processing
elections in
the future. He's not holding out
for anything,
other than what he believes is
principled.
Since Tuesday, the president has
gone out
of his way to praise Sanders, as
in a taping
last night for NBC's "Tonight
Show" which
will air tonight.
BARACK OBAMA: It was a healthy
thing for the
Democratic Party to have a
contested primary.
I thought that Bernie Sanders
brought enormous
energy and new ideas, and he
pushed the party
and challenged them. I thought
it made Hillary
a better candidate.
JOHN YANG: As in today's
endorsement video,
Mr. Obama made note of Sanders'
legions of
young voters.
BARACK OBAMA: There are millions
of Americans,
not just Democrats, who've cast
their ballots
for the very first time. And a
lot of that
is thanks to Senator Bernie
Sanders, who has
run an incredible campaign.
JOHN YANG: While Sanders ponders
his next
move, the president will join
Hillary Clinton
on the campaign trail for the
first time next
week in Green Bay, Wisconsin.
Significantly, that event is the
day after
the final contest, the D.C.
primary. And,
tonight, Sanders kicks off his
D.C. campaign
with a big rally -- Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, John, it
looks like the
White House, the president put a
lot of thought,
took a lot of care in how they
dealt with
Bernie Sanders here at the end.
JOHN YANG: As they have said all
through this,
or today, that they say that
Bernie Sanders
has earned the right through
what he's done
in this campaign season to end
this campaign
on his own time, on his own
schedule. They're
giving him the space to do that.
That endorsement video was taped
Tuesday here
in the residence of the White
House. The plan
was always to release it some
time after the
meeting, and the indications are
that the
meeting went better than
expected, and they
actually moved up the release --
Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, John, we
know the thinking
is, I think, among many
Democrats that it's
really important they treat
Sanders well because
of what's he's brought to the
party.
JOHN YANG: They really do.
You will notice in all the
comments, as -- that
he's really been praising
Sanders for bringing
young people in, first-time
voters. They want
him to keep that up, to keep
those people,
those young people in the fold,
so that they
will vote for Hillary Clinton in
the fall.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, John
at the White
House.
And now let's turn over to Lisa
Desjardins,
who is at the Capitol.
Lisa, you have been talking to a
lot of folks
up there today. They were
watching all this
very closely, weren't they?
LISA DESJARDINS: That's right,
Judy.
And it looks like the
endorsements have not
ended yet. An important
endorsement is expected
tonight. The Boston Globe and
others report
that Elizabeth Warren is
planning to announce
her endorsement of Hillary
Clinton tonight,
her voice so important because
Sanders voters
may actually respect her voice
somewhat more
than the president's.
Tonight, Democrats here feel not
just relief,
Judy, but they moved right into
exuberance,
almost, some of them telling
that they think,
if they can unify the Clinton
and Sanders
camps, they have a shot at very
major gains
here at the Capitol.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Bernie
Sanders -- Lisa,
a Bernie Sanders was, as we
know, the Democratic
socialist member of the Senate
from the state
of Vermont. He will come back to
the Senate
in a different place, won't he?
How do members
of the Senate Democrats see what
he's done
in this campaign?
LISA DESJARDINS: Democrats here
in the Senate
-- I talked to Senator Dick
Durbin earlier
tonight and he said that he
feels that Bernie
Sanders really played a key role
in marking
a major part of the Democratic
identity, an
important part of the Democratic
identity.
And Democrats tonight here in
the Senate are
both figuratively and literally
embracing
Bernie Sanders, Chuck Schumer
giving him a
hug, one of my colleagues
reported seeing
earlier tonight. They want him
to feel that
they have his -- that they
respect him and
that he's a powerful figure.
But all that said, of course,
Judy, the questions
remain as to whether he will get
what he wants
at the convention. All of this
good support
and nice talk, what does it
bring Bernie Sanders
in the end? That's a question
for us to watch.
And one other anecdote. Up here
at the Capitol,
Judy, Republicans, meanwhile,
they are not
following the kind of
choreography we saw
from Democrats today. I ran into
Ted Cruz
coming up alone from the Senate
floor today,
asked him if he has heard from
the Trump campaign,
and he said, pause, "I decline
to comment
on that."
So, not unity yet in the
Republican Party
on that front.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Lisa, just
quickly, I
did want to ask you about that.
So, Republicans
are not volunteering very much
right now about
Donald Trump?
LISA DESJARDINS: No, I spoke to
several offices
today, put in a lot of phone
calls to Republican
members.
And one after another, they told
me, we actually
don't want to talk about Donald
Trump right
now. They're in a very difficult
position,
and they know it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Lisa Desjardins
at the Capitol,
John Yang at the White House on
a momentous
day here in Washington, thank
you both.
LISA DESJARDINS: You got it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The first
official day of summer
is just around the corner, but
the summer
travel season is well under way,
and travelers
at major airports across the
country are enduring
record wait times at security
checkpoints.
Meanwhile, travel warnings have
been issued
for Americans heading to Europe,
over fears
of terrorist attacks there. All
this comes
as the threat of terrorism here
at home persists.
Joining me now to discuss all
this is the
man who oversees Homeland
Security, Secretary
Jeh Johnson.
And, Mr. Secretary, welcome.
JEH JOHNSON, U.S. Secretary of
Homeland Security:
Thanks for having me, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So what is the
status of security
screening at American airports
right now?
We heard so much about it, about
the problems
a week or so ago.
JEH JOHNSON: First, we are not
going to compromise
aviation security in order to
expedite wait
times, in order to short-cut
wait times.
We're going to keep passengers
moving, but
we're also going to keep them
safe. So, beginning
last year, we began to really
take a hard
look at aviation security and
refocus our
efforts. And we knew then that
it would lead
to longer wait times for a lot
of travelers
in the busiest airports.
Couple that with the travel
volume we're seeing
this summer, and that has led to
the wait
times in some of the nation's
busiest airports
at particular times of the day,
like the situation
in Chicago O'Hare a couple of
weeks ago.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
JEH JOHNSON: In the meantime, we
have brought
on to full-time status a lot of
TSOs. We have
authorized additional...
JUDY WOODRUFF: These are your
officers.
JEH JOHNSON: Yes, the TSA
officers that you
see at the airports.
We authorized a lot of overtime
for them.
We're using more canine teams.
And right now,
we have pending in Congress a
request to do
what we call reprogramming of
more money to
bring on more and convert more
part-time to
full-time TSOs, which will add
to the screening
capability and lower the wait
times.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How did it get to
this point?
TSA is what, now, 15 years old.
JEH JOHNSON: We have rededicated
ourselves
to aviation security in response
to the world
situation, frankly.
That is something that I
directed TSA to do
about a year ago. That has led
to added wait
times, and you couple that with
the increased
travel volume we're seeing, and
it has led
to some of the very long lines
in the nation's
busiest airports.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, when you say
rededicate
yourself to -- yourselves at
homeland security
to figuring out what the
problems are and
dealing with them, does that
mean you found
deficiencies, clear
deficiencies?
JEH JOHNSON: Well, as a lot of
people know,
last summer, there was an
inspector general's
report that, unfortunately,
leaked that revealed
certain flaws in a specific type
of screening
that we conduct at certain
airports.
And that required us to take a
real hard look
at aviation security. And so the
new administrator
took office, the new TSA
administrator, Pete
Neffenger, took office July 6.
On July 6,
I swore him in and I gave him a
10-point plan
for rededicating ourselves to
aviation security
in reaction to that I.G. report
and the world
situation that we're seeing with
some of the
challenges across the globe.
And so the administrator has
implemented that,
and that has added to the
security at screening
checkpoints.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In addition to
that, you have,
of course, the Brussels attack,
where what
the terrorist did was, they
attacked that
area outside the secure part of
the airport.
What has that meant here in the
U.S.?
JEH JOHNSON: We have been
focused on airport
security now for almost two
years, really.
We have directed continuous
random screening
of airport and airline
personnel.
We have reduced the number of
access points
to sterile areas through which
airport airline
employees pass. But, in general,
an airport,
before you go through security,
is a public
area, just like a train station,
just like
a bus station, just like an
athletic event.
And so there we need to work
with local authorities,
airport security, to ensure that
travelers
are safe when they're in these
public places.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We mentioned, as
part of all
this, that warnings have
recently been issued
to Americans planning travel to
Europe, you
know, in connection with the
terrorist incidents
over there. What is -- how
worried, how concerned
should Americans be?
JEH JOHNSON: My advice is,
Americans should
continue to travel. They should
continue to
travel during the summer months,
but be vigilant,
be aware, pay attention to State
Department
advisories about particular
countries, particular
places at particular times.
But, in general, we're not
discouraging people
from traveling, but they should
pay attention
to those State Department
advisories.
JUDY WOODRUFF: A couple of other
quick questions
about the terrorist aspect of
all this.
One of the criticisms that grew
out of the
attacks in Brussels and Paris
was the poor
intelligence-sharing between
countries in
Europe, the members of the
Europe -- so-called
European Union.
How much of a problem is that,
and does that
affect the United States?
JEH JOHNSON: I think we're
moving in the right
direction with our European
allies.
I have spent a lot of time
personally with
my European counterparts,
ministers of the
interior, and those in the law
enforcement
intelligence community. And we
are seeing
in general a greater level of
information-sharing
with our European allies.
I think that European nations
realize now
the value of information
sharing, both with
each other and with the United
States. And
just since I have been
secretary, I have seen
that level of cooperation
increase, and we're
going to keep at this.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And just finally,
Mr. Secretary,
we have recently seen several
prosecutions
of Americans who were trying to
join ISIS.
How big a problem right now does
this country
have with Americans who are
trying to join
ISIS or who are simply inspired
by ISIS?
JEH JOHNSON: In this environment
of not only
the prospect of a
terrorist-directed attack,
like, you know, where somebody
is recruited
overseas and exported to another
country,
but we're also now dealing with
the prospect
of terrorist-inspired attacks,
as you just
mentioned, and this other
category called
terrorist-enabled attacks.
We have got to focus on
countering violent
extremism here at home and
monitoring the
travel of suspected terrorist
individuals.
There are two components to that
which I think
are two centerpieces of our
homeland security
efforts.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Finally, what is
the -- what
are the -- what's the main thing
that keeps
you awake at night that has to
do with your
job?
JEH JOHNSON: A lot of people ask
me that.
And I would say that there are a
lot of things
that keep me up at night.
Homeland security
is counterterrorism. It's
cyber-security.
It's border security, port
security, response
to natural disasters. And we
have got to keep
an eye on all of it, and I think
we do.
JUDY WOODRUFF: That's a lot.
Secretary Jeh Johnson, thank you
very much.
JEH JOHNSON: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": the
World Bank
president's take on Brexit and
concerns over
pandemics; an American opera
returns to the
city that inspired it; plus,
what it takes
to make a great podcast.
But, first: In an era here in
the U.S. where
the inequality gap has become
ever more pronounced,
and people are much more
conscious of those
gaps, assumptions are frequently
made about
the behavior of the wealthier.
But recent work on understanding
power is
more complicated and the focus
of economic
correspondent Paul Solman's
conversation tonight.
It's part of his weekly
reporting, Making
Sense.
DACHER KELTNER, Author, "The
Power Paradox":
Power, new studies in economics
are showing,
comes from sharing resources.
PAUL SOLMAN: Power comes from
sharing, says
Professor Dacher Keltner, who
studies economic
behavior. But the title of his
new book is
"The Power Paradox."
DACHER KELTNER: We gain power by
advancing
the welfare of other people, and
yet, when
we feel powerful, it turns us
into impulsive
sociopaths, and we lose those
very skills.
MAN: This stretch of park
avenue, on the Upper
East Side of Manhattan is the
wealthiest neighborhood
in New York City. But this
street is about
a lot more than money. It's
about political
power.
PAUL SOLMAN: We all know it.
Wealth buys us
what we want, and much of what
we want is
power, over our own fate and
that of others.
A 2014 study found that
America's wealthiest
are the only group to influence
legislation.
But money isn't the only route
to clout, says
Keltner.
DACHER KELTNER: What studies
find is, if you're
enthusiastic and you're open to
new ideas
and you listen really well and
you express
gratitude and you share
resources, really
simple strategies, you rise in
the ranks in
just about every context that's
been studied.
PAUL SOLMAN: Well, nobody
studied Renaissance
Florence, right? It may not have
been true
in the past.
DACHER KELTNER: Machiavelli
wrote in what
people think may have been the
most violent
time in human history, very
violent period
of Renaissance Italy. So, if you
wanted to
rise to power, you killed
people. Right?
And as history's evolved in
those 500 years,
we have seen, and really even in
the last
40 to 50 years, we have seen
this dramatic
shift in what it takes to get
power.
PAUL SOLMAN: Why would there be
such a difference?
How is it that we have evolved?
DACHER KELTNER: One is, work has
changed.
Right? Most work today is much
more collaborative,
interdisciplinary, complex than
it was 40
to 50 years ago.
Another reason power has changed
is the influx
of people from different
cultures in the United
States, much more multiethnic.
And that's
changed the face of power. And
then women,
there are more women in
leadership positions,
and they have a different way of
leading.
PAUL SOLMAN: So, evolution, but
only up to
a point.
DACHER KELTNER: When we feel
powerful, we
have these surges of dopamine
going through
our brain. And we feel like we
can accomplish
just about anything.
And that's where the power
paradox begins,
which is that very sense of
ourselves when
feeling powerful leads to our
demise, leads
to the abuse of power.
PAUL SOLMAN: In a series of
studies we featured
here on the "NewsHour" in 2013,
Keltner and
colleagues at the University of
California,
Berkeley, showed that the
wealthier and therefore
more powerful tend to behave
like, well, jerks.
They help themselves to candy
meant for children,
cheat in Keltner's lab in a game
of chance.
And those who drive pricey cars,
BMWs and
the like, are four times more
likely to speed
through crosswalks with
pedestrians, even
though it's illegal in Berkeley.
DACHER KELTNER: Who's more
likely to think
that my time is more important
than the safety
of the pedestrian? It's people
driving more
high-power, wealthier cars.
PAUL SOLMAN: But it's not just
the more affluent
who act more entitled. It's also
those induced
to feel rich and powerful in the
lab, as I
experienced in a rigged game of
"Monopoly."
Researcher Paul Piff randomly
gave subjects
all sorts of advantages over
their randomly
disadvantaged opponents: more
money at the
start, twice as much for passing
Go, and yet,
Piff told us, despite their
presumably egalitarian
bent going in, this being
Berkeley:
PAUL PIFF, University of
California, Berkeley:
When we asked them afterwards,
how much do
you feel like you deserved to
win the game,
the rich people felt entitled.
PAUL SOLMAN: Entitlement, it was
demonstrated
in one of Keltner's favorite
experiments.
DACHER KELTNER: We brought three
people to
the lab. We pointed to one
person and said,
you're in charge, right? So that
person kind
of felt powerful. And then they
had to do
this really boring task. And
they're getting
kind of bored. We bring a plate
of chocolate
chip cookies. Everybody takes
one cookie.
So the key question is, who
takes that fourth
cookie? And, indeed, it's our
person in the
position of power who reaches
out, grabs the
cookie and says, that's mine,
eats it.
PAUL SOLMAN: So, power corrupts,
and absolute
power corrupts absolutely?
DACHER KELTNER: Well, I mean, I
think Lord
Acton was on to something,
right, which is
that there are dozens of studies
showing who's
more likely to speak rudely in
an organization,
high-power people or low-power
people? High-power
people. Who's more likely to
have sexual affairs?
High-power people or low-power
people? High-power
people.
Who is likely to walk into the
store and pocket
something that they shouldn't --
that they
don't pay for? And indeed it's
high-power,
wealthier people who are more
likely to shoplift.
PAUL SOLMAN: And yet social
science research
on the benefits of generosity is
clear.
DACHER KELTNER: If I share
resources until
you prosper, I feel as much
pleasure as if
I were to keep those resources
for myself.
So, it's been built in to our
evolution to
derive benefits from being
grateful or pro-social.
And when we abuse power, we lose
those benefits.
PAUL SOLMAN: But if my group
becomes stronger
because I'm a good leader who
shares with
the other members of my group...
DACHER KELTNER: Yes.
PAUL SOLMAN: ... doesn't that
present a danger
to the world, in a sense that
you see in the
countries of Europe and even
here in the United
States, people who are
specifically appealing
to the group within the country
and excluding
quite explicitly people who are
not in the
group?
DACHER KELTNER: Yes. Yes.
It's worrisome. And I think that
people who
have thought deep about the
evolution of morality
say this is one blind spot in
our moral predilections,
is what makes us good for the
group may make
us really antagonistic to the
other groups
that make up the world today.
PAUL SOLMAN: But, hey, Dacher
Keltner runs
the Greater Good Science Center.
So doesn't
he have some solution to the
power paradox?
DACHER KELTNER: I always go back
to the science.
WOMAN: So you can start the
video now.
GIRL: I'm 12 years old. It's a
very rare cancer.
DACHER KELTNER: We have done
studies, Paul,
in our lab. If I'm led to feel
compassion
and kindness, the divide between
us and them,
and I'm talking about between
Republicans
and Democrats, is smaller.
And the same is true with
gratitude, which
is that, when people are shown
appreciation,
when then they are given gifts
and they get
to express gratitude, kind of
the basic metrics
of us vs. them tend to be lower.
Right? It
tends to work against this
us-vs.-them divide.
PAUL SOLMAN: To which many of us
would say
these days, we sure hope so.
For the "PBS NewsHour," this is
economics
correspondent Paul Solman,
trying to practice
kindness and gratitude as much
as I possibly
can. Not always easy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now: how the
World Bank is
changing its response to
fast-moving crises.
In 2014, it took months before
international
agencies ramped up their
approach to the Ebola
outbreak, and that included
getting money
to hard-hit countries.
Eventually, more than
11,000 people died in West
Africa, and the
economic cost topped $10
billion.
Now the bank is creating a
fast-disbursing
fund to provide assistance
during pandemics.
Hari Sreenivasan spoke recently
with the bank's
president, Jim Yong Kim, about
that and other
humanitarian crises.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Dr. Kim,
thanks for joining
us.
You recently launched something
called the
Pandemic Emergency Financing
Facility. What
is this?
DR. JIM YONG KIM, President,
World Bank Group:
So, Hari, we were thinking, what
can we do
to prevent what happened with
Ebola from happening
again?
The response was too late. The
money didn't
start flowing really until about
October,
10 months after we knew that
there was an
outbreak. So...
HARI SREENIVASAN: And during
that time, people
are getting infected.
DR. JIM YONG KIM: Absolutely.
And so we said, can we somehow
use our experience
with catastrophe bonds? We have
now developed
this way of pooling countries
together. So,
the Caribbean countries who
couldn't afford
to get insurance policies on
their own, we
have pulled them together. And
when a catastrophe
happens, we have now got an
instrument that
immediately releases funds so
that they can
respond.
We thought, can we do something
like that
for pandemics? And so we started
looking at
it. We started talking to
insurance companies.
Insurance companies had never
had an insurance
policy for pandemics before. But
they said
we have learned how to insure
lots of different
things, let's give it a shot.
Here's what it's going to do.
It's a $500
million instrument that has
attached to it
an additional $100 million that
will be used
right away whenever we see
anything going
on. The $500 million instrument
is for three
classes of diseases, the flu
orthomyxoviruses,
which are the flu pandemics, the
filoviruses,
which are the Ebola and Marburg
viruses, and
then also the coronaviruses,
SARS and MERS,
that we have experienced in the
past.
So, for those three, this $500
million instrument
will disburse immediately to the
poorest countries
in our group, the 77 poorest
countries. And
our hope is that the instrument,
the cash
instrument plus the $500 million
pandemic
facility will go so far upstream
in tackling
pandemics that we will stop them
before they
become a big problem.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now, $500
million sounds
like a ton of money, but
considering how much
it costs to deal with Ebola on a
global scale,
there's folks out there saying,
this is just
not enough.
DR. JIM YONG KIM: We think it's
a -- we think
it's not enough for all the
different pandemics,
but it's really important that
we have got
a start.
So, to give you a sense of
perspective, right,
you cannot change the force of a
hurricane.
You cannot change the force of a
tornado,
but you can change the force of
an epidemic,
and it's all about getting it as
early as
possible.
So, days make a difference.
Certainly, weeks
and months make a difference.
So, you know,
$50 million, $100 million six
months ahead
of when we actually started
making a major
response to Ebola could have
kept the epidemic
much, much smaller. It's really
not the size
of the money. It's how early you
can deploy
it that's important.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Almost 60
million people
are on the move around the
planet right now.
How do you solve some of these
deep, systemic
problems that are facilitating
this transfer
of humans?
DR. JIM YONG KIM: What we're
seeing is that
these humanitarian crises are
stretching out
10, sometimes 20 years. And what
we were told
by the United Nations High
Commissioner for
Refugees, Antonio Guterres, and
now Filippo
Grandi has taken over the role
-- they have
said, we have become development
actors. We're
doing development work. Most of
us are lawyers.
We're not qualified to do this.
Can we change
the way this happens, so that
instead of waiting
for the humanitarian response to
finish before
you come in as development
specialists, why
don't we work together? We don't
we try to
go upstream?
Now, let's use institutions like
the World
Bank in the way that they were
supposed to
be used. We have capital. We can
go to the
capital markets and raise funds.
It starts
looking attractive if you say,
well, look,
why don't we try to develop a
business activity,
so that you can create jobs not
only for your
citizens, but for refugees?
That would create stability.
That would create
hope, less likely for them to
get on these
dangerous boats and try to make
their way
to Europe. So, that's what we're
doing. We're
trying to think out of the box,
and use our
capacity as a bank with a
balance sheet, but
also marry that with our
mission, which is
to end poverty and boost shared
prosperity,
and tackle these problems
upstream, so that
it never gets to the 60 million
people who
are displaced today.
HARI SREENIVASAN: One of the
consequences
especially in Europe right now,
it has a lot
of countries questioning their
identity. And
one of those countries, Britain,
is thinking
about walking away from the E.U.
What are the practical
implications of that
happening?
DR. JIM YONG KIM: We don't know
exactly what
the outcomes will be, but we can
take some
good guesses.
The U.K. is 25 percent of
financial services
activity of all the E.U. as it
exists now.
And it's 30 percent of the stock
market capitalization,
so this is a huge blow for the
E.U.
And also what the U.K. is going
to have to
do is to renegotiate all their
trade agreements,
and the hit on GDP is going to
be very serious.
Now, our -- we don't work
directly with the
U.K. economy, but, of course,
the -- any uncertainty
in the global economy is going
to have an
impact on developing countries.
So we really see that
uncertainty around Brexit
is already having an impact. And
if the U.K.
actually leaves, we think that
the impact
on developing countries could be
quite substantial.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Dr. Jim Yong
Kim of the
World Bank, thanks so much for
joining us.
DR. JIM YONG KIM: Thank you,
Hari.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The annual
Spoleto music festival
in Charleston, South Carolina,
will wrap up
this weekend. One of its
highlights, the staging
of a hometown classic, had
special meaning,
as the city approaches a tragic
anniversary.
Jeffrey Brown has our report.
JEFFREY BROWN: "Summertime,"
from the 1934
American opera classic "Porgy
and Bess." It's
a story set in Charleston and
now being performed
here as the centerpiece of the
40th anniversary
celebration of the Spoleto
Festival USA.
The music was familiar, but as
the opera progressed,
it had a less familiar look,
just as visual
director Jonathan Green wanted.
JONATHAN GREEN, Artist: You have
to know what
the stereotypes are to move away
from the
stereotypes.
JEFFREY BROWN: And what did you
see in the
stereotypes?
JONATHAN GREEN: I saw in the
stereotypes a
complete disrespect of a
continent of Africa,
not being a part of the culture
of a people.
JEFFREY BROWN: Green, one of
Charleston's
most prominent artists, is
himself from the
Gullah community, descendants of
West African
slaves who lived in this area,
the very setting
of "Porgy and Bess," for which
he's imagined
a kind of alternative history.
JONATHAN GREEN: What if West
Africans came
as immigrants? What would we be
looking at?
What would we see? And what are
we missing
because we haven't supported
that?
JEFFREY BROWN: The bright
colors, patterns,
and vivid designs, Green
believes, fill in
a missing piece and offer a
greater truth
about both the opera and the
city.
Set in the 1920s, "Porgy and
Bess" is the
story of the disabled beggar
Porgy, sung by
Lester Lynch, the beautiful
prostitute Bess,
Alyson Cambridge, and their life
in Catfish
Row, a Charleston tenement. It's
based on
the 1925 novel "Porgy" by DuBose
Heyward,
who lived near the real-life
tenement, then
called cabbage Row
HARLAN GREENE, Historian: This
very picturesque
place was once a slum.
JEFFREY BROWN: Local historian
Harlan Greene
has studied the period and the
people. He
even found this photo of the
real-life man,
Samuel Smalls, on whom Porgy is
based.
I asked him about the success of
Heyward's
original novel.
HARLAN GREENE: What he did that
was truly
earth-shattering is that he
showed a love
story between a black man and a
black woman,
and this -- a passionate love
affair. And
it wasn't Uncle Remus. It wasn't
Aunt Jemima.
He took real people, and it
wasn't a race
novel. It wasn't a stereotype.
He shattered all sorts of
conventions at the
time.
JEFFREY BROWN: It was George
Gershwin who
then created the musical
masterpiece. But,
ever since, many
African-Americans and others
have seen stereotypes in the
characters and
the way they have been
portrayed.
And the opera came up against
other harsh
realities in its long segregated
hometown.
HARLAN GREENE: "Porgy and Bess"
and "Porgy"
has always been sort of a
lightning rod to
give us reasons to discuss race
in this country.
They tried to do a version of it
in the '50s,
the play version of it. There
was going to
be a local production. It had
gone into rehearsal.
But it was going to be in a
segregated hall.
And at first, that was OK. But
then, as people
started thinking about it,
specifically the
local NAACP and the national
NAACP, they thought,
well, if African- Americans are
good enough
to be in the starring vehicle,
shouldn't they
be good enough to integrate the
hall?
And society had not caught up
with the arts
at that time period.
JEFFREY BROWN: So it didn't
happen.
HARLAN GREENE: So it didn't
JEFFREY BROWN: It wasn't until
1970 that an
integrated performance could
take place in
Charleston, in the old Gaillard
Auditorium.
Spoleto's general director,
Nigel Redden,
wanted the new production to
open the newly-renovated
Gaillard Auditorium.
NIGEL REDDEN, General Director,
Spoleto Festival
USA: The 1970 production was a
kind of a landmark
in the community, and I want
this to be another
landmark, and a landmark about
how we have
evolved since 1970, how the city
has evolved,
how I hope that nation has
evolved.
JEFFREY BROWN: That's grand
terms for an opera
at an arts festival.
NIGEL REDDEN: I absolutely
believe that the
arts can and do change the way
we think about
things.
JEFFREY BROWN: One thing people
are thinking
about, the massacre of nine
people at the
nearby Emanuel AME Church, just
days after
the close of last year's
festival.
SHARON RISHER, Daughter of
Shooting Victim:
Her work ethic was just
phenomenal.
JEFFREY BROWN: She was proud of
the work she
did here?
SHARON RISHER: Yes, of course.
JEFFREY BROWN: Sharon Risher's
mother, Ethel
Lance, was one of those killed.
She'd been
a custodian at the theater
before retiring
in 2002. The Memorial Day
performance of "Porgy
and Bess" was dedicated to her.
SHARON RISHER: To come to a
place where my
mom spent 32 years of her life
and to know
that the performance took the
time to memorialize
her, it just did my heart good,
and I felt
like maybe now I have some
spiritual closure
with the auditorium.
JEFFREY BROWN: Right after the
shooting, some
victims' family members forgave
the alleged
killer, Dylann Roof. Sharon
Risher doesn't
go that far.
SHARON RISHER: There is still a
lot of anger.
There is still a lot of pain.
And I know I
will get to that point of
forgiveness. But
it just coming out there with me
not working
through is not something I have
been able
to do.
JEFFREY BROWN: Spoleto's
producers were determined
that "Porgy and Bess," which
quickly sold
out, would be a community
affair. The performance
that honored Ethel Lance was
also simulcast
to nearby Marion Square, where
people watched
for free.
Marian Greene Thompson was one
of them.
MARIAN GREENE THOMPSON, South
Carolina: As
far as this production coming at
this time,
it's needed. We need to know
history. There
are parts of it that we don't
like. But we
need to know, so that that can
help us move
forward.
JEFFREY BROWN: And all over
town, one could
see so-called Porgy houses,
homes with ties
to Charleston's African-American
history,
with African-inspired designs by
Jonathan
Green.
This has given you an
interesting canvas,
right? This is more than just
the theater,
more than the stage. You get the
city.
JONATHAN GREEN: I get the city,
but, more
importantly, I get the people's
attention
to want to know why that's
there, and to have
the opportunity to read about
these people,
and to know that it has nothing
to do with
anything, other than giving you
a little more
dimension into the history of
black people,
as to why there would be an
opera "Porgy and
Bess."
JEFFREY BROWN: A wounded city,
with a rich
and often troubled history,
ready to celebrate
anew one of the nation's
greatest works of
homegrown art.
From the Spoleto Festival in
Charleston, South
Carolina, I'm Jeffrey Brown for
the "PBS NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: Can't forget that
music.
Next, the latest in our Brief
But Spectacular
series.
Alex Blumberg has been
responsible for some
of the most innovative forms of
radio in recent
years, including NPR's "Planet
Money," along
with the podcast "StartUp," that
documented
his experience creating a
podcasting company,
which is now Gimlet Media.
He speaks to us now about
creating what he
calls good tape.
ALEX BLUMBERG, Radio Journalist:
When I think
about good tape, what I think
about is some
-- is tape that is arresting.
You don't want
to stop listening to it. You
can't stop listening
to it.
Great tape is tape where there's
a lot of
truth. There's a media study
where they were
trying to figure out, like,
through which
media is it easier to lie? And
so they planted
a false story in a TV program,
in a radio
program and in a print story.
The easiest
medium through which to detect
the lie was
radio. You can hear authentic
emotion. You
can hear people telling the
truth.
I have learned to try to create
the conditions
where good tape will occur. When
I was just
beginning, I would go out and I
would do an
interview, and I would have the
feeling like
something was there, but I
hadn't gotten it.
And then I would listen back to
my tape, and
I would just hear myself ruining
moment after
moment.
It was just learning to shut up
and just sort
of like not fill the silence.
Let people continue
to talk. We don't want to just
engage people
on a deep, emotional -- on a
deep, emotional
level, you know, while we're
riding the elevator
with them or in the subway with
them.
And so we develop these
defenses. And so a
lot of it is just sort of trying
to figure
out, like, no, no, no, don't go,
like, the
small talk route, which is,
like, sort of
programmed into us.
And when you actually sit in the
silences,
it feels incredibly
uncomfortable. It just
feels like, oh, my God, I'm just
sitting here
and this person is like mad or
angry or upset
or -- and I should be saying
something.
I think that's the way we feel a
lot of time.
I don't think it's actually
true. If you are
comfortable with them sitting in
silence and
really experiencing an emotion,
they feel
comfortable, too. But it's just
-- when it's
happening, in the moment, it
just feels like
it's going on forever.
Those are the moments that are
amazing on
the air. Like, those are the
moments where
it's just sort of, like, sort of
raw, electric
silence. You know, that's what
you're going
for.
My name is Alex Blumberg, and
this is my Brief
But Spectacular take on good
tape.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you can watch
more of our
Brief But Spectacular series on
our Web site.
That's PBS.org/NewsHour/Brief.
We will be back in a moment.
But, first, take this time to
hear from your
local PBS station. It's a chance
to offer
your support, which helps keep
programs like
ours on the air.
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: And now for a
news update.
The House of Representatives
voted overwhelmingly
this evening to pass a bill to
help Puerto
Rico out of its debt crisis. The
legislation
will create a federal oversight
board and
restructure its $70 billion
debt. The bill
now heads to the Senate for a
vote.
Online, in our first episode of
something
we're calling Science Scope, our
producer
Nsikan Akpan breaks down the
science of smell.
Scientists have designed an
experiment that
allows them to visualize odors
as they move
through space, an innovation
that could help
allows them to visualize odors
as they move
through space, an innovation
that could help
train dogs or robots in rescue
missions.
NSIKAN AKPAN: That
is an odor, or at least what an
odor looks
like. Odors are normally
invisible, swirling
is an odor, or at least what an
odor looks
like. Odors are normally
invisible, swirling
around us. But I will tell you
the secret
behind why you can see this one.
around us. But I will tell you
the secret
behind why you can see this one.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that
and more is
on our Web site,
PBS.org/NewsHour.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that
and more is
on our Web site,
PBS.org/NewsHour.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
On Friday, as part of our How
the Deck Is
Stacked series, a closer look at
the struggles
On Friday, as part of our How
the Deck Is
Stacked series, a closer look at
the struggles
of the middle class in a
challenging economy.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow
evening with Mark Shields and
David Brooks.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow
evening with Mark Shields and
David Brooks.
For all of us here
at the "PBS NewsHour," thank
you, and good
night.
at the "PBS NewsHour," thank
you, and good
night.